https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Essex_(whaleship)

Essex sank 2,000 nautical miles (3,700 km) west of South America. After spending two days salvaging what supplies they could, the 20 sailors set out in their three small whaleboats with wholly inadequate supplies of food and fresh water. The closest known islands, the Marquesas, were more than 1,200 mi (1,900 km) to the west, and Captain Pollard intended to make for them, but the crew, led by Owen Chase, feared the islands might be inhabited by cannibals and voted to make for South America. Unable to sail against the trade winds, the boats would need to sail south for 1,000 mi (1,600 km) before they could use the Westerlies to turn towards South America, which would still lie another 3,000 mi (4,800 km) to the east.

Food and water were rationed from the beginning, but most of the food had been soaked in seawater. The survivors ate this food first despite it increasing their thirst. It took them around two weeks to consume the contaminated food, and by this time the survivors were rinsing their mouths with seawater and drinking their own urine. Never designed for long voyages, all the whaleboats had been roughly repaired, and leaks were a constant and serious problem. After losing a timber, the crew of one boat had to lean to one side to raise the other side out of the water until another boat was able to draw close, and a sailor nailed a piece of wood over the hole. Within hours of the crew's beginning to die of thirst, the boats landed on uninhabited Henderson Island, within the modern-day British territory of the Pitcairn Islands. Had they landed on Pitcairn, 104 miles (167 km) to the southwest, they would have received help; the survivors of HMS Bounty still lived there.

On Henderson Island Essex's crew found a small freshwater spring and the men gorged on birds, eggs, crabs, and peppergrass. After one week, they had largely exhausted the island's food resources and on 26 December they concluded they would starve if they remained much longer. Three men, William Wright, Seth Weeks, and Thomas Chappel, the only white members of the crew who were not natives of Nantucket, opted to stay behind on Henderson. Almost a year after Essex sank, Lloyd's List reported that Surry had rescued the three men and taken them to Port Jackson.[11]

The remaining Essex crewmen resumed the journey on 27 December, hoping to reach Easter Island. Within three days they had exhausted the crabs and birds they had collected for the voyage, leaving only a small reserve of bread, salvaged from Essex. On 4 January they estimated that they had drifted too far south of Easter Island to reach it and decided to make for Más a Tierra island, 1,818 miles (2,926 km) to the east and 419 miles (674 km) west of South America. One by one, the men began to die.[12]

Chase's boat[edit]
Chase's whaleboat also carried Richard Peterson, Isaac Cole, Benjamin Lawrence, and Thomas Nickerson. Matthew Joy, the second mate, was dying and asked if he could rest on Pollard's boat until his death. Joy died on 10 January. Nantucketer Obed Hendricks took over Joy's boat. The following day, Chase's boat became separated from the others during a squall. Peterson died on 18 January and, like Joy, was sewn into his clothes and buried at sea, as was the custom. On 8 February Cole died, but with food running out the survivors kept his body and, after a discussion, the men resorted to cannibalism. By 15 February the three survivors had again run out of food. On 18 February, 89 days after Essex sank, the British whaler Indian spotted and rescued the survivors. Several days after the rescue, Chase's whaleboat was lost in a storm while under tow behind the Indian, although the three survivors were safely aboard the Indian
